do you need to grow your brand or your
business you need to make more money but
at the moment you're just one person and
you're the person who's in charge of
content creation and content strategy
this episode is for you
I'm chalene Johnson co-host of the build
your tribe and today I'm going to share
with you a strategy that I think is
really important for any entrepreneur
but especially those of you who have
built your brand and your business using
social media and primarily with you as
the person who's the face of the brand
as you who's doing most of the content
strategy content editing promotion
coming up with what you're going to
promote where and basically you're a
one-man show and when it comes to
content with there being so many
platforms you probably feel like you're
on a bit of a hamster wheel I've built
businesses in eight different Industries
and I've gone through the Ebbs and flow
of having to be the brand as well as
managing the brand from being the CEO to
the content creator and today in this
episode I want to help you understand
what you need to do differently to break
that business Plateau like to make more
money and perhaps more importantly to
overcome or avoid the overwhelm that
comes when you are a one-man show you've
probably tuned into this episode because
you're an entrepreneur and you build
your business dependent upon you being
the driving force behind everything that
happens especially in social media and
when it comes to content creation and if
that's the case you probably feel like
you're trapped in this endless
Relentless cycle of creation where
there's just not enough time to come up
with strategy or to write better emails
because if you're not showing up every
single day creating more content well
then the business in your mind is going
to dry up so your business is not only
stuck but you feel stuck maybe you're
running out of creativity maybe you feel
like I just can't keep up with this pace
and we're just not making enough money
for me to be able to bring on additional
people I feel like I'm on a hamster
wheel maybe you're beginning to feel
overwhelmed or like why am I doing doing
this and getting completely burnt out
maybe you're switching niches because
you you think the problem is you pick
the wrong Niche or you're you're doing
things the wrong way but the fact of the
matter is there's some important changes
that you need to make the inspiration
for this episode came after watching a
recent video from Laila hermosi I'm
going to put it in here I hope I'm
saying her last name correctly our Mosey
she is the second half of the hermosi
couple Alex is her husband they're just
this dynamic duo but I tell you Layla
really is a remarkable CEO I
can't even believe how much wisdom this
young woman has so I highly recommend if
you haven't already checked out some of
her content do
watching this video that I'm gonna play
for you in just a second or you'll be
able to hear this what's up guys so I
wanted to make this video to kind of
just explain a couple of changes that
we're going to be making in regards to
the content that we're putting out for
those of you don't know I actually
started making content when we didn't
really have a business so we were
selling gym launch couldn't start
acquisition.com yet as of recently what
I've realized is like I'm going back
into full-blown CEO mode where like I
don't have the time that a lot of
creators have so you're going to see a
different style of content more like
behind the scenes more engagement with
you guys ask you what you want to hear
what you want to see you want your
questions answered maybe some call-in
shows I would rather you guys see like
the real of like what I'm doing
every day how I'm feeling about it I'm
not going to stop making content I know
it's helpful I know a lot of you have
said like how much has changed your life
you've been able to make money you've
never been able to make that's never
something I want to stop doing but I you
have to know what kind of season you're
in and I am not in a season where I can
dedicate the prep time it takes to
content like I used to and honestly I
don't want to I don't want to be a
Creator I love being a CEO I love
running a business that it's like
literally what lights me up I think that
the better I can do it doing that and
capturing it rather than like creating
content and Manufacturing and trying to
like ride Trends and I think I have
more to offer than that I hope that you
guys like the new style that we're come
out with
um let me know what you think
should be a real wake-up call I know for
me it was a stark reminder that it was
time for me again to kind of shift gears
and this is a sliding scale for all of
us especially those of us who are the
CEO and the content creator here's the
deal I personally needed that reminder
it was a reminder that I myself had
slipped into the state of focusing more
on content creation and it was the
reason why we had run into a few major
hurdles in our business in terms of
ceilings certain business centers that
just weren't growing and I couldn't
figure out why because I knew I was
working harder and harder harder but the
thing I was working harder and more
diligently on was content but yet I know
I'm A Gifted entrepreneur I know I'm the
CEO I know I can be an exceptional
leader an innovator I'm the CEO you are
the CEO and it's important that you
embody that role even more so than you
embody the role of being a content
creator so while I'm making this video
for you it's really for both of us
even though I know we are doing this
right now it's a journey and it's one of
those things you're always course
correcting and coming back to ask
yourself what am I focusing like what
moves the needle
for me it wasn't about working harder it
was figuring out like what I needed to
do so I wasn't working so hard on
content so that I wasn't so consumed by
the amount of things I personally had to
create so that I wasn't becoming the
bottleneck and I want to encourage you
to take this journey with me
and I'm going to be walking you through
some of the processes that we have begun
to revisit in the last couple of months
and if you caught some of our previous
episodes you know that this is a
strategic shift that we've begun to make
in our business and it's one that we
make on a regular basis but whenever I
get this wake-up call it's always like
okay there's no reason to point fingers
at anyone else the problem is I'm
focused on the wrong things and that's
so easy to do when you're creative
entrepreneur right you can do all the
things
that's the reason why you are the CEO
but that doesn't mean you should be
doing a lot of things so what we're
going to talk about in this episode is
how important is to create operations
important systems
we'll talk about Staffing and how you
have to maybe you still have to create
the content like you have to be the
person on camera or creating that pillar
of content for example a podcast But
ultimately how to create the systems and
have the team in place even when you
consider yourself a solopreneur someone
who can't afford to hire help in this
episode I'm going to help you understand
why you can't afford not to and how to
do so on a shoestring budget I'm going
to take just a moment to interrupt this
episode to say thank you for those of
you who are watching us here on YouTube
the build your tribe podcast is a
podcast I started I think more than 10
years ago which is crazy and we've had
tremendous success on the regular apps
we've decided obviously just a few
months ago to place build your tribe as
a video podcast as well here on YouTube
and I can't thank you enough for taking
a moment to share this with someone you
know who might benefit from this type of
content specifically an entrepreneur is
trying to grow their brand trying to
grow their business using social media
to do that and of course if I could just
take a moment to say can you double
check and make sure that you're
subscribed when you subscribe to this
podcast version here on YouTube it
really does help us to produce the type
of content that we hope serves you
alright me back to me first I want you
to know this is super normal especially
in today's digital age like everything
is so content driven and especially when
oftentimes the brand is built around you
your idea your Innovations but it's also
part of the ebb and flow of being a
business owner in this day and age like
it's understanding like okay there's
more platforms and suddenly what I call
content creep happens where you don't
even realize that you're creating more
content or that there's a demand for you
to create more and more content and
that's why it's crucial for you as a CEO
to know
when it's time to elevate your approach
when it's time to shift
from creating content and maybe even
take a break
from creating content so that you can
create more effective Business Systems
so that you can be a more proficient CEO
so allow this to be a reminder that
that's first and foremost what you are
you are the CEO and it's more than just
showing up on camera or creating a
podcast I mean you already know about
the power of content creation right like
we all know that content creation is
this amazing thing allows us to grow Our
Brands oftentimes without having to
spend advertising dollars because it's
so easy today to create content from
your phone edit it from your phone
improve it from your phone and then
upload it from your phone there's this
natural hesitation
not to Outsource that it's like well
it'll only take me a second I can do it
myself and once you've learned how to do
it yourself
you forget that there's a point at which
you should no longer be doing it
yourself
and here's the truth that we have to
face you cannot and should not
be the only person who's creating and
engaging in all of your content all the
time there comes a point at which you're
going to need to put systems in place
where other people can help you because
no one's going to be able to be the CEO
the way you can be the CEO and yes
content creation is crucial you'll
probably still have to do it but it's
not the only thing that matters
businesses are not just built on content
a business that is solely surviving on
social media is not a business it's
borrowed time
and all success is a matter of figuring
out a system that works that delivers
success and then repeating that system
but if you're the only person that knows
that system then you're the only person
who can do the work and you see we've
got to create some systems so you can
delegate a lot of what you're doing that
is working undoubtedly you have seen so
many top content creators I mean we're
talking million dollar earners stepping
away from their business like taking a
full-blown break saying that they are
stepping away indefinitely because even
though they're making seven figures plus
it is taking a toll on their Mental
Health
and I really wish that someone had
stepped in and helped them to understand
how to do less and how to be the CEO I
think in many of these instances and I
can think of so many and we've talked
about a few of them here on the show
these are people who are really creative
and really talented and also and tell me
if this isn't true for you the kind of
people like I don't want to burden other
people and so you take on more and more
and more yourself and before long you
realize you're human you can't do more
you can't take on more and your mental
health begins to suffer I don't want
that to happen for you
so here's a little bit of tough love
this may require you stepping back away
from content creation for a week or two
weeks or maybe even a month to put these
systems in place
to save your mental health
and to propel your business forward how
do you know if you're in this position
well are you spending most of your time
either trying to come up with new
content or actually filming and editing
content and are you spending are you
finding you're spending a lot less time
on the systems that your business needs
on on the ways that your business can
create conversions on your web
development your brand development are
you losing track of crucial aspects of
your business
like your profit and loss statements do
you feel like you're knee-deep in
content creation does it feel like
you're having to do all of the things
that you're having to come up with all
of the Creative Marketing and the new
ideas and the hooks and and even the
content strategy itself do you feel like
you're now having these creative blocks
where you're like I just don't have
anything interesting to post I'm out of
content I don't know what to post if
you've answered yes to some or a lot of
these questions my friend it's time to
create some systems it's the systems you
need to put in place in order to
have a easier transition when you do
start to delegate so let's dive deeper
now that we understand the importance of
recognizing this season and the fact
that you have probably plateaued the
growth of your business because of this
the first thing you need to focus on are
those systems creating those systems is
what's going to make it easier for you
to delegate everything you need to get
off your plate and the way you start
doing this very briefly is this take a
pen and a piece of paper out or if you
want to do this on a word doc start
listing absolutely everything you do as
an entrepreneur and I mean everything
like for every tiny little detail and
then take a look at that list and ask
yourself okay which of these things does
it really not make any sense that I'm
doing like this is not a million dollar
job
anything that can be outsourced to
somebody else I want you to take a look
at that and create a screen flow of
exactly how you do it now if you do most
of your work on your phone which a lot
of people do you can just do a screen
record and also turn on your microphone
so that while you're doing the editing
while you're doing whatever it is that
you do on your phone whether that's
interacting with customers or comments
Etc
you're recording what it is you're
thinking and why it is you're doing it
the way that you're doing it that way
that screen recording can then be turned
into a standard operating procedures
with an accompanying video and the video
is like it's showing people not just how
to do it but like why you do it the way
that you do it start by doing that for
your the easiest things that need to
come off your plate eventually you can
do this for everything that's on your
list and ultimately there should be
standard operating procedures for just
about anything that's a profit Source or
needs to happen in your business and it
needs to happen a certain way right
there are certain things that don't
necessarily need to be have a standard
operating procedure but if it's
something that makes you money or
something that needs to be done a
certain way and it's very important it's
done this way you know you're not going
to Outsource it unless somebody's doing
it that way so make that video
the next step is to start with Staffing
right and take a look at that list and
who are the lowest level people that you
need to bring on that's going to free
the most time for you
when we just did this project recently I
recognize that one of the things I
needed right away was help in my inbox
help in my DMs it's responding to simple
questions I'm not asking somebody to be
me but I am asking and knew I needed
somebody to be in because I get
thousands of direct messages across all
platforms and I need a sense of like
what's the vibe what are people
struggling with what is it that people
want what is it that people are asking
for I needed somebody who could actually
be in there for hours every day and give
me a sense of what type of content I
needed to create that alone is freed up
I don't know probably 15 hours a week
for me so take a look at your own list
and decide what thing
if I freed myself up from doing this I'm
gonna have a big chunk of time now
available to be the CEO to make the
executive decisions to figure out where
we're hitting the mark and where we're
missing the mark As we've mentioned in
countless previous episodes it's so
important that when you bring on a team
member especially if you're a
solopreneur you bring them on one at a
time
and the interviewing process is really
critical like they have got to have core
competency they've got to fit with your
culture it has to be someone that you
really like and something you're willing
to spend time on to onboard them and I'm
not talking about hiring somebody
full-time for most people now you might
be at a stage where you actually do need
to bring on some additional full-time
people and realize like you're doing
multiple full-time jobs for other people
and you're actually going to make more
money if you Outsource some of that it
is such a mindset shift to believe that
you're saving money
or that you can't afford to hire these
people when the fact is your business is
stuck because you haven't
so it's setting aside enough time that
you can onboard them and when onboarding
them that means the first however long
it takes depending on the job for them
to get it right it's considerable like
you've got to be patient enough to know
it's not ever going to be done the way
you do it if you want to get as close as
possible and that requires great
communication
communication is probably one of the
most essential skills when it comes to
keeping staff motivating staff reminding
staff of what it is you expect of them
and having them meet that expectation so
that you don't have to worry about it as
often but as a CEO you will always have
I mean it's never just said it and
forget it these are not robots these are
people that you you need them to to want
and to see your vision to want to work
as hard on the business as you do and
the only way that happens is if they
feel like they're an integral part of it
that you care about them that you
understand them and that that they're
appreciated and valued otherwise why
would they stay there they can start
their own business or go and work for
somebody else you know people aren't
necessarily motivated by money it's
recognition it's you know being seen
it's knowing that you are a valuable
part of the team and that is a learned
skill you as a CEO can learn how to
motivate people how to course correct
how to give people Direction so that it
doesn't feel like they're being scolded
so that you're not uncomfortable and it
feels like a confrontation it should
never feel like a confrontation if the
reason why you aren't correcting your
team and your staff is because that
feels confrontational then that is
simply a skill you need to work on and
you can there's so many books and
podcasts and and courses you can take
that will help you to understand how
that communication can be so much more
comfortable and the person who you're
giving the correction to feels empowered
feels seen feels excited to get it right
so if your business has hit a plateau if
you've hit a plateau you can't do more
then it is time to take a step back to
schedule some time to work on your
systems Staffing your communication and
management skills because focusing on
this aspect of your business is going to
help you create that stronger Foundation
you will continue newly keep hitting a
cap in your earnings regardless of your
Niche regardless of what it is you're
doing if you don't learn to master these
skills and anyone can do that systems
bring structure systems allow for
efficiency and predictability in the
success of your business and end of the
way that things are done it is those
systems that are going to make it more
successful when you do go to delegate to
Outsource and to hire people to do some
of things that you need to free yourself
up you've got to free yourself up so you
can focus on growing the business you
can focus on scaling and being the CEO
hey it is my goal to be brief to be
bright to make it fun and then be done
we're doing this the challenge I have
for you is to tell me specifically what
it is you need to create a system for
because I know step two is you're going
to find somebody to Outsource that to to
delegate to hire to bring on either as a
part-time maybe temporary person or
perhaps a full-time member of your team
but it starts like recognizing having
that self-awareness to know here's the
thing that has to come off my plate this
is the first thing I'm going to start
with so please drop your comment below
wherever it is you're listening to this
episode and if you're here watching it
on YouTube you'll notice that I pinned
that question at the very top of the
comments and you can respond there do me
a favor if you would please take a
moment and double check to see that you
are subscribed that really does help
Brock and I to reach more people and
that means a lot to us if you've enjoyed
this content I would also ask if you
could share it just so just copy the
link and send it off to somebody else
you know who is an entrepreneur or a
solopreneur again I really do appreciate
the time you spend with us and we'll see
in our next episode
[Music]
thank you